Nov 1 2012

@matz=================================================================
from Pascal using pen and paper bc of expensive compiler and no internet.
just for fun. man power is not the bottle neck. motivation is the resource that drives innovation, and that is limited.
What happens when you force things? you lose the ability to try and miss out on dividing innovation..

prediction: language designers are the drivers for innovation.


@NRELdev, @nickblah ==============================================================
reverse proxies: serves as a middle layer between dev boxes and clients


Benefits of this talk
Creating Silos of functional bits w/in reverse proxies.
Dealing w/ diversity within an organization
Users don’t give a shit about organizational platform implementation

Goal:
1 entry point to aggregate APIs
1 user account gives access to all the APIs
-Key based management across APIs
-Rate limiting accross APIs
-Universal Analytics across APIs

Didn’t want:
changes to existing APIs
added engineering efforts

CUSTOM REVERSE PROXIES
Authentication
Rate Limiting
Analytics
can be shared to all the services

**Shielded from internal complexities

Any new features get pushed to the entire architecture
Standardization is enforced
Reverse proxies as load balancers

**em-proxy
Ruby & EventMachine
Blazing Fast
Flexible
Low-Level

** What can you do with this?
Error Handling
web page manipulation

**Caughtchas
Buffering -- don't know what all the events are doing and don't want to interrupt things like streaming
content-length
gzip responses back to client


@chrishunt=============================================================================================
Services at square 
How they build ruby services
risk management and automation
service oriented architectures
fdoc for enforcing documentation
foreman
cane
jetpack: jetty for ruby

@josephruscio | librato ==============================================================================

Day 2
Asynchronous calls
Mike Perham
Sidekiq

MobileRuby
ib gem
afn networking
sdweb image -this is -> cocoapod
Restkit

Testing should be fun @noelrap========================================================

