---
layout: post
title: The switch to Github Pages
tweet: .@github and the beauty of github pages.
---
I remember meeting "Gabe Carleton-Barnes":gabe while travelling around Europe.  Here was someone who had a laptop, 6 articles of clothing, and a wallet travelling around Europe for three months.  And there I was, lugging around 2 suitcases and a backpack like a douche.  I felt like I needed to hold on to everything. Not only was this limiting me in terms of mobility, but I was constantly worrying, about losing or forgetting my stuff.

As I was packing for grad school, I realized the metaphor still haunted me; I owned too many things.  It was becoming a pain not only to manage my digital life (synching files between four computers), but I didn't have the luxury of easily transporting from place to place.  


A few months back, I decided to finally let go of everything.  I put up a digital store on "Amazon":amazon.com/shops/androwis and I've slowly been shedding since.  It's turned out to put some money in my pocket, but more importantly I feel free, not dragged down by all my crap. 

Once you start shedding, you become addicted.  I realized I was still shuffling files between machines, even though I had "Dropbox":http://db.tt/NOFhHqZw (which I love!). So, I started selling my computers and put everything up at "Github":github.  Discovering "Github Pages":github_pages: changed my life, "Jekyll":jekyll: made it easy.  

The best thing about Github Pages is, that it's free, allows me to direct content to my personal site, and encourages me to create and share content.

My entire site is open source, -- of course. Perhaps it could help you get started!  

[gabe]http://vimeo.com/50006538
[github]http://github.com
[github_pages]http://pages.github.com
[jekyll]http://github.com/mojombo/jekyll
