---
layout: post
title: Androwis Abumoussa's Resume
---
<div class="resume" style="font-size:12px">
<center>downloads</center>
    <a href="/static/resume/AndrowisAbumoussaResume.txt">Current Resume</a>
    | <a href="/static/resume/AndrewAbuMoussaTranscript.pdf">Unofficial UNC Transcript</a>

<center> contact</center>
<div id="r">
    <div id="n">Androwis Abumoussa</div>
    <div class="tl"> <strong> current address :</strong> 57 Glasgow Street, Rochester NY 14608</div>
    <div class="tr"> <strong> permanent address :</strong> 100 Tarnhill Dr, Flat Rock, NC 28731</div>
    <div class="t"><strong>twitter</strong>.com/<a href="http://twitter.com/androwis">androwis</a></div>
    <div class="t"><strong>github</strong>.com/<a href="http://github.com/androwis">androwis</a></div>
    <div class="t"><a href="mailto:androwis@androw.is">androwis@androw.is</a></div>
    <div class="t"><a href="tel:8283935939">828.393.5939</a> </div>
    

<center>education</center>
<dl>
<dd><strong>The University of Rochester</strong> | <span class="d">1 / 2012 – present</span><br>
Computer Science Ph.D. Candidate<br>
Accessibile User Interfaces [under <a href="http://www.cs.rochester.edu/~jbigham/">Dr. Jeffrey Bigham</a>] <br>
Artificial Intelligence [under <a href="http://www.cs.rochester.edu/u/kautz/">Dr. Henry Kautz</a>]
</dd>
<br/>
<dd><strong>The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill</strong> | <span class="d">8 / 2005 – 5 / 2009</span><br>
B.Sc. in Applied Mathematics [under <a href="http://mitran.web.unc.edu/">Dr. Sorin Mitran</a>]<br>
B.Sc. w/ Honors in Computer Science [under <a href="http://www.cs.unc.edu/~gb/">Dr. Gary Bishop</a>]<br>
Mathematics GPA – 3.69/4.00 Overall–3.42/4.00</dd>
<br/>
<dd><strong>The North Carolina School of Science and Mathematics</strong> | <span class="d">8 / 2003 – 5 / 2005</span><br>Fell in love with Fractals and Chaos, exhausted biology and maths curriculums, &amp; surprisingly, did 0 programming.<br><br></dd></dl>

<center>employment history</center>
<dl>
<dd><strong>Co-founder / CTO</strong> at <a href="http://fount.in"><strong>Fount.in</strong></a> | <i>Rochester, NY</i> <span class="d">[May 2012 – Present]</span><br>Artificial Intelligence as a Service.<br>Coverage: <a href="http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2012-07/algorithm-scans-your-tweets-tell-you-if-youre-about-get-sick">PopSci</a> | <a href="http://gizmodo.com/5929196/how-twitter-can-predict-when-individuals-will-get-sick">Gizmodo</a> | <a href="http://www.newscientist.com/blogs/onepercent/2012/07/ai-predicts-when-youre-about-t.html">New Scientist</a> | <a href="http://www.businessinsider.com/researchers-use-twitter-to-predict-when-new-yorkers-will-catch-the-flu-with-90-accuracy-2012-8">Business Insider</a> | <a href="http://news.discovery.com/tech/twitter-predicts-sickness-120726.html">Discovery News</a> | <a href="http://www.medicaldaily.com/news/20120726/11111/twitter-algorithm-know-flu-influenza-artificial-intelligence.htm"> MedicalDaily</a> | <a href="http://www.bild.de/digital/internet/twitter/twitter-sagt-krankheit-voraus-25416408.bild.html">Bild.de</a> | <a href="http://www.sfgate.com/technology/businessinsider/article/Researchers-Use-Twitter-To-Predict-When-New-3754629.php">SFGate</a> | <a href="http://www.fiercehealthit.com/story/twitter-helps-predict-flu-trends-new-york/2012-08-01?utm_source=rss">Fierce Health</a> | <a href="http://www.npr.org/templates/rundowns/rundown.php?prgId=35">NPR</a> (panel round 2, 5 minutes in)  | <a href="http://colab.is/2012/gigtank-goes-to-washington/">[video] Health Data Palooza Keynote</a> |<a href="http://vimeo.com/48183729">GigTank Demo Day</a></dd><br/>
<dd><strong> Head of Engineering</strong> at <a href="http://simply-home.com"><strong>Simply Home</strong></a> | <i>Asheville, NC</i> <span class="d">[Oct. 2010 – Apr. 2012]</span><br>As the chief technologist at SimplyHome, I was responsible for building the infrastructure behind our solutions that allowed families to monitor aging or disabled loved ones with technology instead of live at home caregivers.<ul> <li>Restructured and rewrote the distributed systems and cloud architecture</li><li>Learned about hardware manufacturing through the design of ~12 devices (FCC certifications, hardware tooling, CAD)</li><li>Heavy scaling and growth focus</li></ul>Coverage:<a href="http://www.simply-home.com/extreme/">Extreme Makeover: Home Edition</a></dd>
<dd><strong>Founder / President</strong> at <a href="http://scenedipity.com"><strong>Scenedipity</strong></a> | <i>Asheville, NC</i><span class="d">[Apr. 2011 – Apr. 2012]</span><ul><li>Open data platform for restaurant and foodtrucks </li><li>Introduction to open source community (specifically <a href="http://github.scenedipity.com">Github</a>) and twitter.</li><li><i>[Toolkit Growth]</i>  <a href="http://d.scndp.it:5984/_utils">CouchDB</a> | <a href="https://github.com/Scenedipity/embedded-jetty-archetype">Embedded jetty</a> w/ Virtual Hosts | Graphiti | built a <a href="http://scndp.it">URL Shortener</a> (<a href="https://github.com/Scenedipity/scnd.pt">source</a>) &amp; [<a href="https://github.com/androwis/j">one in JS!</a>] | tech basis for <a href="http://www.timesfreepress.com/news/2012/may/15/tech-challenge/?print">Fount.in</a> | open sourced <a href="https://github.com/androwis/androwis.github.com">http://androw.is</a>.</li></ul></dd>
<dd><strong> Lead Dev / Sys Admin </strong> at <a href="http://iwanna.com"><strong>IWANNA, USA, LLC</strong></a> | <i>Asheville, NC </i><span class="d">[Jan. 2010 – July 2011]</span> <ul><li>Managed the complete rebuild of a classified website that serves over 25,000 classifieds weekly and generates over 1 million hits a month.  The largest developmental focus was placed on the user-interfaces and the networking of the individual advertiser's classifieds.</li><li>Proposed/developed an expansion that focuses on and supports socially aware projects and programs in the local community</li><li>Proposed/developed a marketplace for local businesses to manage and brand their inventories.</li></ul></dd>
<dd><strong>Programming Consultant</strong> at <a href="http://www.bishara.com.eg/"><strong>Bishara Textile Manufacturing</strong></a> <i> Cairo, Egypt</i> <span class="d">[May 2008 –  Sept. 2008] </span><ul><li>Designed an online management tool for a 2000+ worker textile factory. The software manages all aspects of garment production, from worker output and factory capacity to scheduling design calendars while using a database back-end. Resulted in a 12% productivity increase.</li></ul></dd>
<dd><strong>Programmer &amp; Draftsman,</strong> at <a href="http://shamburgerarchitecture.com/"><strong>Shamburger Design Studio</strong></a>,<i> Hendersonville, NC</i> <span class="d"> [May 2007 – Aug. 2007]</span>
 <ul><li>Web Programmer: created an ftp style page so clients could securely access rendered designs</li><li> Architectural draftsman for 10 projects in excess value of $15 million</li><li>Trained a new intern.</li></ul>
</dd>
<dd>
<strong>Architectural Intern, </strong> at <a href="http://shamburgerarchitecture.com/"><strong>Shamburger Design Studio</strong></a> <i> Hendersonville, NC </i><span class="d">[May 2006 – Aug. 2006]</span><ul><li>Apprenticed architect through all stages of design, from initial meeting with clients, to sketching the ideas, to final presentation of plans and bidding of project to contractor </li><li>Draftsman using AutoCAD 2005, archiCAD, and Google’s Sketch-Up.</li></ul></dd></dl>

<center>publications</center>
<dl>
    <dd>
        <a href="/static/papers/Real-Time_Captioning_by_Groups_of_Non-Experts_UIST-12.pdf"> <strong>Real-Time Captioning by Groups of Non-Experts</strong></a><br>
        W Lasecki, C Miller, A Sadilek, A Abumoussa, D Borrello, R Kushalnagar, &amp; J Bigham<br>
        <i>in 25th ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology (UIST) 2012</i><br>
        Crowd sourcing captioning to power an interface for the deaf
        Coverage: <a href="http://www.newscientist.com/article/mg21528745.200-crowdsourcing-serves-up-the-subtitles-to-your-life.html?">New Scientist</a> | <a href="http://gizmodo.com/5928856/crowdsourcing-could-help-deaf-people-subtitle-their-everyday-life">Gizmodo</a>
    </dd>
    <br/>
    <dd>
        <a href="/MotionVideo.js" alt="distributed, realtime video processing using HTML5 &amp; Javascript"><strong>Distributed, Real-Time Video Processing Using HTML5 &amp; Javascript</strong></a><br>
        Tutorial for using HTML5's canvas to simultaneously play and process video for computer vision processing.
    </dd>
    <br/>
    <dd><a href="/static/resume/AndrewAbuMoussaHonorsThesis.pdf"><strong>Irys: : The Focus Oriented, Auditory Online User Interface</strong></a><br> cs undergraduate honors thesis in accessible interfaces for the blind.
    </dd>
    <br/>
    <dd>
     <a href="/static/resume/AndrewAbuMoussaMathModeling.pdf"><strong>Analysis of the Stock Market</strong></a> <br>
     maths undergraduate honors thesis exploring possible models for stock market performance
    </dd>
</dl>

<center>skills </center>
<dl><dd><strong>Languages</strong> | Java, Scala, Python, C, C++, lisp, prolog, ruby<br><strong>Web Technologies</strong> |  Spring, J2EE, EJB, Node.js, PHP, Javascript/jQuery, rails<br><strong>Mobile</strong> | HTML5/JS, Android, iOS, WP7<br><strong>Databases</strong> | CouchDB, Cassandra, SQL, memchached<br><strong>Symbolic Computing</strong> | Mathematica, Matlab, Maple<br><strong>Graphic Suites</strong> | Photoshop &amp; Gimp, Sketch-Up<br><strong>Drafting and Architectural</strong> | autoCAD, archiCAD</dd>

<dd><strong>Spoken Languages</strong><br><i>Bilingual in English and Arabic. (U.S. citizen)<br>Advanced French. Basic Spanish &amp; German.</i><br><br></dd>

<dd><strong>Honors</strong><br>
University of Rochester Hajim School of Engineering Dean's Fellowship [ 2011-2012 ]
Semifinalist in Carolina Entrepreneurial Challenge, Kenan-Flagler Business School at UNC-CH [ 2010 ]
University of North Carolina Honors Program [ 2005 – 2009 ]
State of North Carolina Tuition Scholarship [ 2005 – 2009 ]
Western North Carolina Regional Scholar, The Community Foundation of WNC [ 2005 ]
Glaxo-Smith-Kline Scholar and Research Grant [ 2004 ]
</dd>
<dd>
<strong>Other Certifications:</strong>
Skydiving, Scuba, Belay
</dd>
</dl>
</div>